---
title: 2. Internally-owned Fungible Token Interface
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /standard/TIP-3.2
---

# Internally-owned fungible Token Interface (TIP-3.2)

Requires: [TIP-3.1](1.md)

## Abstract

The following standard describes token, where token wallets are owned internally by any Everscale contract (e.g. multisignature wallet). Any operation, such as burn or transfer, can be initiated with the internal message from the owner contract.

## Motivation

The [TIP-3.1](1.md) standard describes the key architecture principles and some common methods for token contracts in the Everscale network. While it does not answer the following questions:

- How to create token wallet
- How token wallets are owned
- How to transfer, mint or burn tokens
- How the tokens recipient can handle the incoming transfer, etc

## Specification

The keywords “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Notes

- Zero address is `0:0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000`

### Token root

#### Token wallet address

Returns token wallet address, owned by `owner`. MUST NOT deploy token wallet.

```solidity
function walletOf(address owner) external view responsible returns (address);
```

#### Deploy token wallet

Deploys token wallet, owned by `owner`. Returns token wallet address.

```solidity
function deployWallet(
    address owner,
    uint128 deployWalletValue
) external responsible returns (address);
```

#### Mint tokens

Mints `amount` amount of tokens to the token wallet, owned by `recipient`.

If `deployWalletValue` is greater than 0, token root MUST deploy token wallet for `recipient`. Otherwise, it mints tokens without deploying token wallet, which may lead to failed minting.

Calls the `acceptMint` method on the recipient token wallet. If `notify` is `true`, than the `onAcceptTokensMint` callback message will be sent to the `recipient`.

```solidity
function mint(
    uint128 amount,
    address recipient,
    uint128 deployWalletValue,
    address remainingGasTo,
    bool notify,
    TvmCell payload
) external;
```

#### Accept burn

Accepts burning `amount` amount of tokens from the token wallet, owned by `walletOwner`.

If `callbackTo` is zero address, than all the remaining gas is transferred to the `remainingGasTo`. Otherwise, message with `onAcceptTokensBurn` callback is sent to the `callbackTo` address.

Decreases the `totalSupply` by `amount`.

```solidity
function acceptBurn(
    uint128 amount,
    address walletOwner,
    address remainingGasTo,
    address callbackTo,
    TvmCell payload
) external functionID(0x192B51B1);
```

#### Callbacks

##### Burn callback

Notifies the contract that the burn was accepted. MUST BE called from the token root.

```solidity
function onAcceptTokensBurn(
    uint128 amount,
    address walletOwner,
    address wallet,
    address remainingGasTo,
    TvmCell payload
) external;
```

### Token wallet

#### Owner

Returns the owner of the token wallet.

```solidity
function owner() external view responsible returns (address);
```

#### Balance

Returns the token balance of the token wallet.

```solidity
function balance() external view responsible returns (uint128);
```

#### Transfer tokens to the recipient

Transfers `amount` amount of tokens to the token wallet, owned by `recipient`. Token wallet address is derived automatically.

If `deployWalletValue` is greater than 0, token wallet MUST deploy token wallet for `recipient`.

Calls the `acceptTransfer` on the recipient token wallet.  If `notify` is `true`, than the `onAcceptTokensTransfer` callback message will be sent to the `recipient`.

```solidity
function transfer(
    uint128 amount,
    address recipient,
    uint128 deployWalletValue,
    address remainingGasTo,
    bool notify,
    TvmCell payload
) external;
```

#### Transfer tokens to the token wallet

Transfers `amount` amount of tokens to the `recipientTokenWallet`.

Calls the `acceptTransfer` on the `recipientTokenWallet`.

Decreases the token wallet `balance` by `amount`.

```solidity
function transferToWallet(
    uint128 amount,
    address recipientTokenWallet,
    address remainingGasTo,
    bool notify,
    TvmCell payload
) external;
```

#### Burn tokens by token wallet owner

Decreases the token wallet `balance` by `amount`.

```solidity
function burn(
    uint128 amount,
    address remainingGasTo,
    address callbackTo,
    TvmCell payload
) external;
```

#### Burn token by token root

Decreases the token wallet `balance` by `amount`.

```solidity
function burnByRoot(
    uint128 amount,
    address remainingGasTo,
    address callbackTo,
    TvmCell payload
) external;
```

#### Accept mint

Accepts incoming mint for `amount` amount of tokens. MUST be reverted if `msg.sender` is not `root`.

Increases the token wallet `balance` by `amount`.

```solidity
function acceptMint(
    uint128 amount,
    address remainingGasTo,
    bool notify,
    TvmCell payload
) external functionID(0x4384F298);
```

#### Accept transfer

Accepts incoming transfer for `amount` amount of tokens from token wallet, owned `sender`.

If `notify` is `false`, than the remaining gas MUST be sent to the `remainingGasTo`. Otherwise, the `onAcceptTokensTransfer` callback MUST be sent to the token wallet `owner` with the same `remainingGasTo` and `payload`.

Increases the token wallet `balance` by `amount`.

```solidity
function acceptTransfer(
    uint128 amount,
    address sender,
    address remainingGasTo,
    bool notify,
    TvmCell payload
) external functionID(0x67A0B95F);
```

#### Callbacks

##### Incoming transfer callback

Notifies token wallet's `owner` that an incoming transfer was accepted.

```solidity
function onAcceptTokensTransfer(
    address tokenRoot,
    uint128 amount,
    address sender,
    address senderWallet,
    address remainingGasTo,
    TvmCell payload
) external;
```

##### Mint callback

Notifies token wallet's `owner` that mint was accepted.

```solidity
function onAcceptTokensMint(
    address tokenRoot,
    uint128 amount,
    address remainingGasTo,
    TvmCell payload
) external;
```

##### Bounced transfer callback

Notifies token wallet's `owner` that token transfer was bounced.

```solidity
function onBounceTokensTransfer(
    address tokenRoot,
    uint128 amount,
    address revertedFrom
) external;
```

##### Bounced burn callback

Notifies token wallet's `owner` that burn was bounced.

```solidity
function onBounceTokensBurn(
    address tokenRoot,
    uint128 amount
) external;
```

## Implementation

- [TIP-3.2 implementation by Broxus](https://github.com/broxus/tip3). Upgradable version is also available.
